BR: add a doc about Azure Blob Storage (#7434)
pingcap/docs: br/backup-and-restore-azblob.md

---
title: Back up and Restore Data on Azure Blob Storage
summary: Learns how to use BR to backup and restore data on the external storage Azure Blob Storage
---

# Back up and Restore Data on Azure Blob Storage

The Backup & Restore (BR) tool supports using Azure Blob Storage as the external storage for backing up and restoring data.

For detailed information on other external storages supported by BR, refer to [External Storages](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md).

> ## Use cases

Author: ```suggestion
## User scenario
```

Azure virtual machines can quickly store large-scale data on Azure Blob Storage. If you are using Azure virtual machines to deploy your cluster, you can back up your data on Azure Blob Storage.

## Usage

With BR, you can back up and restore data on Azure Blob Storage by the following two methods:

> - Back up and restore data using Azure AD

Author: ```suggestion
- Back up and restore data using Azure AD (Azure Active Directory)
```

- Backup and restore using an access key

In common cases, to avoid exposing the key information (such as `account-key`) in command lines, it is recommended to use the first method - use Azure AD.

The following is an example of backup and restore operations on Azure Blob Storage using the above two methods. The purpose of the operations are as follows:

> - Back up: Back up the `test` library to a place with container name `container=test` and path prefix `t1` in Azure Blob Storage.

Author: ```suggestion
- Back up: Back up the database named `test` to a place with container name `container=test` and path prefix `t1` in Azure Blob Storage.
```

> - Back up: Back up the database named `test` to a place with container name `container=test` and path prefix `t1` in Azure Blob Storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Back up: Back up the `test` database to a space in the `container=test` container with `t1` as the path prefix in Azure Blob Storage.
```

> - Restore: Restore the place with the container name `container=test` and the path prefix `t1` in Azure Blob Storage to the `test` library.

Author: ```suggestion
- Restore: Restore the place with the container name `container=test` and the path prefix `t1` in Azure Blob Storage to the database named test.
```

> - Restore: Restore the place with the container name `container=test` and the path prefix `t1` in Azure Blob Storage to the database named `test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Restore: Restore data from a space in the `container=test` container with `t1` as the path prefix in Azure Blob Storage to the `test` database.
```

### Method 1: Back up and restore using Azure AD (recommended)

> In the operating environment of BR and TiKV, the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` should be configured. When these variables are configured, BR can use Azure AD to access Azure Blob Storage without configuring `account-key`. This method is safer and therefore recommended. `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` respectively refer the application ID `client_id`, the tenant ID `tenant_id`, and the client password `client_secret` of Azure application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the operating environment of BR and TiKV, the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` must be configured. When these variables are configured, BR can use Azure AD to access Azure Blob Storage without configuring `account-key`. This method is safer and therefore recommended. `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` refer to the application ID `client_id`, the tenant ID `tenant_id`, and the client password `client_secret` of Azure application.
```

To learn how to check `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` are in your operating environment, or you want to configure these environment variables as parameters, refer to [Configure environment variables as parameters](#configure-environment-variables-as-parameters).

#### Back up

When backing up data using Azure AD, you need to specify `account-name` and `access-tier`. If `access-tier` is not set (the value is empty), the value is `Hot` by default.

> **Note:**
>
> When using Azure Blob Storage as the external storage, you must set `send-credentials-to-tikv = true` (which is set by default). Otherwise, the backup task will fail.

> This section shows baking up data to `cool tier`, that is, the storage class of the uploaded object is `Cool`. You can specify `account-name` and `access-tier` in two ways:

Author: ```suggestion
This section shows backing up data to `cool tier`, that is, the storage class of the uploaded object (`access-tier`) is `Cool`. You can specify `account-name` and `access-tier` in two ways:
```

- Write the parameters information in URL parameters:

    ```
    tiup br backup db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?account-name=devstoreaccount1&access-tier=Cool'
    ```

- Write the parameters information in command-line parameters:

    ```
    tiup br backup db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?' --azblob.account-name=devstoreaccount1 --azblob.access-tier=Cool
    ```

#### Restore

When restoring data using Azure AD, you need to specify `account-name`. You can specify it in two ways:

> - Write the parameters information in URL parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write the parameter information in URL parameters:
```

    ```
    tiup br restore db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?account-name=devstoreaccount1'
    ```

> - Write the parameters information in command-line parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write the parameter information in command-line parameters:
```

    ```
    tiup br restore db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?' --azblob.account-name=devstoreaccount1
    ```

### Method 2: Back up and restore using an access key (easy)

#### Back up

> When backing up data using an access key, you need to specify `account-name` and `access-tier`. If `access-tier` is not set (the value is empty), the value is `Hot` by default.

Author: ```suggestion
When backing up data using an access key, you need to specify `account-name`, `account-key`, and `access-tier`. If `access-tier` is not set (the value is empty), the value is `Hot` by default.
```

> **Note:**
>
> When using Azure Blob Storage as the external storage, you must set `send-credentials-to-tikv = true` (which is set by default). Otherwise, the backup task will fail.

> This section shows baking up data to `cool tier`, that is, the storage class of the uploaded object is `Cool`. You can specify `account-name` and `access-tier` in two ways:

Author: ```suggestion
This section shows backing up data to `cool tier`, that is, the storage class of the uploaded object (`account-tier`) is `Cool`. You can specify `account-name`, `account-key`, and `access-tier` in two ways:
```

> - Write the parameters information in URL parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write the parameter information in URL parameters:
```

    ```
    tiup br backup db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?account-name=devstoreaccount1&account-key=Eby8vdM02xNOcqFlqUwJPLlmEtlCDXJ1OUzFT50uSRZ6IFsuFq2UVErCz4I6tq/K1SZFPTOtr/KBHBeksoGMGw==&access-tier=Cool'
    ```

> - Write the parameters information in command-line parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Write the parameter information in command-line parameters:
```

    ```
    tiup br backup db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?' --azblob.account-name=devstoreaccount1 --azblob.account-key=Eby8vdM02xNOcqFlqUwJPLlmEtlCDXJ1OUzFT50uSRZ6IFsuFq2UVErCz4I6tq/K1SZFPTOtr/KBHBeksoGMGw== --azblob.access-tier=Cool
    ```

#### Restore

> When restoring data using an access key, you need to specify `account-name` and `access-tier`. You can specify the parameters in two ways:

Author: ```suggestion
When restoring data using an access key, you need to specify `account-name` and `account-key`. You can specify the parameters in two ways:
```

- Write the parameters information in URL parameters:

    ```
    tiup br restore db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?account-name=devstoreaccount1&account-key=Eby8vdM02xNOcqFlqUwJPLlmEtlCDXJ1OUzFT50uSRZ6IFsuFq2UVErCz4I6tq/K1SZFPTOtr/KBHBeksoGMGw=='
    ```

- Write the parameters information in command-line parameters:

    ```
    tiup br restore db --db test -u 127.0.0.1:2379 -s 'azure://test/t1?' --azblob.account-name=devstoreaccount1 --azblob.account-key=Eby8vdM02xNOcqFlqUwJPLlmEtlCDXJ1OUzFT50uSRZ6IFsuFq2UVErCz4I6tq/K1SZFPTOtr/KBHBeksoGMGw==
    ```

> ## Parameter specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Parameter description
```

> During the backup and restore process, you need to use parameters `account-name`, `account-key`, `access-tier`. The following is the detailed description of the parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the backup and restore process, you need to use `account-name`, `account-key`, and `access-tier`. The following is the detailed description of the parameters:
```

- [URL parameters](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#azblob-url-parameters)
- [Command-line parameters](/br/backup-and-restore-storages.md#azblob-command-line-parameters)

### Configure environment variables as parameters

> When baking up and restoring data using Azure AD, the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` should be configured in the operating environment of BR and TiKV.

Author: ```suggestion
When backing up and restoring data using Azure AD, the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` should be configured in the operating environment of BR and TiKV.
```

> When backing up and restoring data using Azure AD, the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` should be configured in the operating environment of BR and TiKV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When backing up and restoring data using Azure AD, the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` must be configured in the operating environment of BR and TiKV.
```

> - When you start a cluster using TiUP, TiKV uses the systemd service. The following example provides how to configure the above three environment variables as parameters for TiKV:

Author: ```suggestion
- When you start a cluster using TiUP, TiKV uses the "systems" service. The following example provides how to configure the above three environment variables as parameters for TiKV:
```

> - When using a cluster started with TiUP, TiKV uses the "systemd" service. The following example provides how to configure the above three environment variables as parameters for TiKV:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When you start a cluster using TiUP, TiKV uses the systemd service. The following example provides how to configure the above three environment variables as parameters for TiKV:
```

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > You need to restart TiKV in Step 3. If your TiKV cannot be restarted, you can back up and restore data using the [Method 2](method2back-up-and-restore-using-an-access-key-easy).

Author: ```suggestion
    > You need to restart TiKV in Step 3. If your TiKV cannot be restarted, you can back up and restore data using the [Method 2](#method2back-up-and-restore-using-an-access-key-easy).
```

>     > You need to restart TiKV in Step 3. If your TiKV cannot be restarted, you can back up and restore data using the [Method 2](#method2back-up-and-restore-using-an-access-key-easy).

Author: ```suggestion
    > You need to restart TiKV in Step 3. If your TiKV cannot be restarted, you can back up and restore data using the [Method 2](#method-2-back-up-and-restore-using-an-access-key-easy).
```

>     > You need to restart TiKV in step 3. If your TiKV is not suitable to be restarted, you can back up and restore data using the [Method 2](method2back-up-and-restore-using-an-access-key-easy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > You need to restart TiKV in Step 3. If your TiKV cannot be restarted, you can back up and restore data using the [Method 2](method2back-up-and-restore-using-an-access-key-easy).
```

>     1. Suppose that the TiKV port on this node is 24000, that is, the name of the "systemd" service is "tikv-24000":

Author: ```suggestion
    1. Suppose that the TiKV port on this node is `24000`, that is, the name of the "systemd" service is "tikv-24000":
```

        ```
        systemctl edit tikv-24000
        ```

    2. Fill in the environment variable information:

        ```
        [Service]
        Environment="AZURE_CLIENT_ID=aaaaaaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaaaaaaaaaa"
        Environment="AZURE_TENANT_ID=aaaaaaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaa-aaaaaaaaaaaa"
        Environment="AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET=aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"
        ```

    3. Reload the configuration and restart TiKV:

        ```
        systemctl daemon-reload
        systemctl restart tikv-24000
        ```

> - For TiKV and BR started with command lines, to configure the Azure AD information to them, you only need to check whether the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` are configured in the operating environment. You can check whether the variables are in the operating environment of BR and TiKV by running the following command lines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For TiKV and BR started with command lines, to configure the Azure AD information for them, you only need to check whether the environment variables `$AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `$AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `$AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` are configured in the operating environment. You can check whether the variables are in the operating environment of BR and TiKV by running the following commands:
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```shell
```
